<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1"?>
<html menu="samples" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms"
      xmlns:ajx="http://www.ajaxforms.net/2006/ajx">
	<head>
		<title>XPath</title>
		<meta name="description" content="Samples about XPath expresions."/>
		<meta name="keywords" content="AJAX, Javascript, Web, XForms, AJAXForms, Ejemplos, Samples, XPath, Function"/>
		<xf:model>
			<xf:instance>
				<data xmlns="">
					<item id="1">one</item>
					<item id="2">two</item>      			
					<item id="3">three</item>
				</data>
			</xf:instance>
			<xf:instance id="nums">
				<data xmlns="">
					<item>2</item>
					<item>5</item>
					<item>7</item>
				</data>
			</xf:instance>
		</xf:model>
		<style type="text/css">
        	label.xforms-label {
        		width : 300px;
        		font-weight : normal;
        	}
		</style>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h3>XPath Functions</h3>
		<ajx:tabs>
			<ajx:tab>
				<xf:label>Node-set</xf:label>
				<xf:output value="/data/item[last()]">
					<xf:label>number <b>last</b>() = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>This function returns a number equal to the context size from
						the expression evaluation context</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="/data/item[position() = 1]">
					<xf:label>number <b>position</b>() = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>This function returns a number equal to the context position
						from the expression evaluation context.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>					
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="count(/data/item)">
					<xf:label>number <b>count</b>(node-set) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>This function returns the number of nodes in the
						argument node-set.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<!-- 
				<xf:output value="id('2')">
					<xf:label>node-set <b>id</b>()</xf:label>
				</xf:output>
				 -->					 
				<xf:output value="local-name(/data/item)">
					<xf:label>string <b>local-name</b>(node-set?) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the local part of the expanded-name of
						the node in the argument node-set that is first in
						document order.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				 <xf:output value="namespace-uri(/data/item)">
					<xf:label>string <b>namespace-uri</b>(node-set?) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the namespace URI of
						the node in the argument node-set that is first in
						document order.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="name(/data/item)">
					<xf:label>string <b>name</b>(node-set?) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns a string containing a QName representing
						the expanded-name of the node in the argument node-set
						that is first in document order.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="instance('nums')/item">
					<xf:label>node-set <b>instance</b>(string) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>This function allows access to instance data.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="current()/item">
					<xf:label>node-set <b>current</b>() = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the context node used to initialize the
						evaluation of the containing XPath expression.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
			</ajx:tab>
			<ajx:tab>
				<xf:label>Boolean</xf:label>
				<xf:output value="boolean('a')">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>boolean</b>(object) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>A object is converted to a boolean.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>	
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="not(true())">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>not</b>(boolean) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns true if its argument is false, 
						and false otherwise.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="true()">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>true</b>() = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns false</xf:help>
				</xf:output>	
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="false()">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>false</b>() = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns true</xf:help>
				</xf:output>	
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="boolean-from-string('true')">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>boolean-from-string</b>() = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns true if the required parameter string is "true"
						or "1", else returns false</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="if(false(), 'bad', 'good')">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>if</b>(condition, onTrue, onFalse) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Function if evaluates the first parameter as boolean,
						returning the second parameter when true, otherwise the
						third parameter.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<!--	
				<xf:output value="lang(instance('string')//item[1])">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>lang</b>()</xf:label>
				</xf:output>
				 -->
			</ajx:tab>
			<ajx:tab>
				<xf:label>Number</xf:label>
				<xf:output value="number('67')">
					<xf:label>number <b>number</b>(object?) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>The function converts its argument to a number.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="sum(instance('nums')/data/item)">
					<xf:label>number <b>sum</b>(node-set) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the sum, for each node in the argument node-set,
						of the result of converting the string-values of the node to
						a number.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>	
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="floor('3.4')">
					<xf:label>number <b>floor</b>(number) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the largest (closest to positive infinity) number
						that is not greater than the argument and that is an integer.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>		
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="ceiling('3.4')">
					<xf:label>number <b>ceiling</b>(number) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the smallest (closest to negative infinity) number
						that is not less than the argument and that is an integer.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>				
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="round('3.4')">
					<xf:label>number <b>round</b>(number) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the number that is closest to the argument
						and that is an integer</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="avg(instance('nums')/item)">
					<xf:label>node-set <b>avg</b>(node-set) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the arithmetic average of the result of converting 
						the string-values of each node in the argument node-set to a number.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="min(instance('nums')/item)">
					<xf:label>number <b>min</b>(node-set) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the minimum value of the result of converting
						the string-values of each node in argument node-set to a number.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="max(instance('nums')/item)">
					<xf:label>number <b>max</b>(node-set) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the maximum value of the result of converting the
						string-values of each node in argument node-set to a number.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="count-non-empty(/data/item)">
					<xf:label>number <b>count-non-empty</b>(node-set) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Function count-non-empty returns the number of non-empty
						nodes in argument node-set</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
			</ajx:tab>
			<ajx:tab>
				<xf:label>String</xf:label>
				<xf:output value="string(6.2)">
					<xf:label>string <b>string</b>(object?) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>This function converts an object to a string.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="concat('ajax', 'forms')">
					<xf:label>string <b>concat</b>(string, string, string*) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the concatenation of its arguments</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="starts-with('ajaxforms', 'ajax')">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>starts-with</b>(string, string) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns true if the first argument string starts
						with the second argument string</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="contains('ajaxforms', 'xforms')">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>contains</b>(string, string) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns true if the first argument string contains
						the second argument string.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="substring-before('ajaxforms', 'forms')">
					<xf:label>string <b>substring-before</b>(string, string) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the substring of the first argument string
						that precedes the first occurrence of the second argument
						string in the first argument string.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="substring-after('ajaxforms', 'aja')">
					<xf:label>string <b>substring-after</b>(string, string) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the substring of the first argument string
						that follows the first occurrence of the second argument
						string in the first argument string.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="substring('ajaxforms', 4, 2)">
					<xf:label>string <b>substring</b>(string, number, number?) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the substring of the first argument starting
						at the position specified in the second argument with length
						specified in the third argument.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>				
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="string-length('ajaxforms')">
					<xf:label>number <b>string-length</b>(string?) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the number of characters in the string.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="normalize-space('hello    world')">
					<xf:label>string <b>normalize-space</b>(string?) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the argument string with whitespace normalized.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="translate('ajaxforms','jx','xj')">
					<xf:label>string <b>translate</b>(string, string, string) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the first argument string with occurrences of
						characters in the second argument string replaced by the
						character at the corresponding position in the third
						argument string.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
			</ajx:tab>
			<ajx:tab>
				<xf:label>Others</xf:label>
				<xf:output value="now()">
					<xf:label>string <b> now</b>(node-set) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns the current system date and time as a string
						value in the canonical XML Schema xsd:dateTime format.</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				<br/>
				<xf:output value="is-valid(/data/item)">
					<xf:label>boolean <b>is-valid</b>(node-set) = </xf:label>
					<xf:help>Returns true when all nodes in noseset are valid</xf:help>
				</xf:output>
				index, nodeindex
			</ajx:tab>
		</ajx:tabs>
	</body>
</html>
